---
title: 'Learning a foreign language with Anki'
subtitle: "finding the most common words"
author:
  - rczmdp
categories: [python]
tags: [productivity, education]
description: |
  There is a lot of vocabulary to learn in any language, even natives don't know them all. 
  I decided to enrich my Anki decs with word frequency - so I can focus on the words that I have higher chanes to 
  encounter and as a consequence a lower chances to forget.
---

## Using Anki

As the first post in a blog is the hardest, let's take it easy and write a few sentences about
using [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/)

In a nutshell: you have a deck of cards, with a question in the front and the answer in the back. You pick a card from the
top of the deck. Remind yourself of the answer, and confront with the answer from the back of the card. Evaluate your answer.
The better/faster you recall the right answer, the longer might be the period for the next reminder.
So the idea is super simple, moreover, Anki provides many [decs](https://ankiweb.net/shared/decks), which might be an easy way to 
start.

However, I have found that using a deck that someone already has prepared for me just doesn't work, at least for me.
When looking at words in a different language, they may seem to be just a collection of random characters - at first
sight, there's not a big difference between those words and telephone numbers.
To avoid such situations I'm creating my decks while reading books - so I know the context of the word.
That context is not only a sentence when it was used: sentence is a part of the plot, it's associated with a liked/disliked character, it's part of the plot. 
It might be used in a paragraph describing a funny situation. 
So there are some memories associated to usage of this word. 

As I'm a developer, I have a set of scripts that collect vocabulary from Kindle. Then there is a web interface to
enrich those words with translation and usage from online resources. 
This way I can decide if the word is not a mistake, the translation is clear, examples are vivid and significant.  


Many of those words are for me just one occurrence: so there was just one place where I have
found those words, put them into Anki, and now struggling to remember them, as Anki decs are the only places I can find them. 

So my basic idea is to use the data from [wikitionary](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Wiktionary:Frequency_lists/Spanish).
This way I can filter out those seldom words, and pay more attention to the words that are used frequently.

